What is Zoning

Zoning was adopted in Lexington in the late 1920s similar to most other
cities in America. The federal government was pushing it and most just copied and pasted it.

Zoning Today governs quite a few things.
It controls land uses, i.e. what can be done on what land.
Controls the types of residential buildings and where they can be built
Controls where certain types of businesses can locate

Lot size - simply the size of the lot, typically seen as a minimum lot size like 5,000sqft
Coverage - how much of the land the building can cover, usually a percentage like 50%
Height - The building Height
Setbacks - How far the building must be away from the property line. Called minimum front/back/side yard in Lexington
Frontage - The width of the property that faces the street
Off Street Parking

What is doesn't control
Price - typically, zoning ordinances don't prescribe any sort of price/affordability requirements to specific areas. There
are cases where allowances are granted in exchange for affordable housing.

Architecture style - other than the rough dimensions of the building, zoning does not dictate any styles.

Materials - similarly, it doesn't discriminate between vinyl, brick, or hardiboard. One exception is in the case of
Lexington's H-1 Historic Districts, but those are their own can of rotten worms

Internal Layout - There's nothing saying your dining room has to be in the front, or that you need X number of bedrooms. We
do have some weirdness about when you can have a second kitchen and there are rules that are based off the number of
say bedrooms, but nothing that prescribes specific numbers or arrangement.

How Zoning Impacts You
Walkability
    costs - AAA estimates a cost of $5000-$10000 per year to simply own and operate a car.
    This includes things like car payments, but also gas, insurance, depreciation, etc.

    When walking is an option, people will walk more often which is healthier. People say Americans
    are fat because of our foods, but France doesn't have the same stereotype. Have you seen french food?
    They are not shy with the butter. But their cities are older and therefore more walkable. Even occasional
    incindental excercise is excercise.

Community
    Robert Putnam wrote a book in the 70s called Bowling Alone. Where he looked at how people
    live and how it affects how they interact with their community. 
    QUOTE
    
    LIVABLE STREETS IMAGES
    Late 1960's study that compared 3 residential streets in San Francisco
    All streets were similar except for the amount of traffic.
    2000 vehicles per day was considered Light Traffic, 8000 Medium traffic,
    and 16000 Heavy Traffic

But perhaps the biggest impact that we all experience is the housing shortage.
Single family, detached housing is the most expensive type of housing and it constitutes
over 60% of Lexington's housing stock.

Missing Middle

ADUs

At Detached ADU:
    You may look at some of these and be like "But we have those" and it's true we do.
    NEXT SLIDE

At Triplex:
    But it also affects businesses